# Predict Network Failure with AI Techniques

Internet services may be interrupted for various reasons, such as device failure, connection issues, natural disasters, etc. When a network error inadvertently disrupts internet services, customers become frustrated. Especially in a medical emergency, personal safety, or transportation-related emergency, a lack of network connectivity can be catastrophic. In addition, since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, many businesses require a constant internet connection. In reality, every aspect of our lives depends on the Internet, including emergency needs, banking, entertainment, healthcare, socializing, and creative work. The Internet is now such an integral part of our lives that its absence will be immediately noticeable.

Additionally, Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are impacted by service interruptions from a business perspective, as they lose millions annually due to network failure. As a result, ISPs utilize redundant network equipment as backups if a network device fails. However, the disadvantage of this approach is that it requires time to identify the type of failure and then fix the problem with an appropriate backup. Constructing a system that can predict the type of failure occurring next to using backups effectively would be preferable. But building this type of system will necessitate a record of past network failures to determine what types of failures may occur in the future. Nevertheless, the absence of publicly accessible failure data is responsible for lacking a suitable general network failure identification and prediction system.

This research simulates network traffic to obtain failure data based on a generic failure guideline to address this issue. Furthermore, cutting-edge Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques on that data yield promising results.
